[wip] Dismiss component (#541)
microsoft/atlas-design: site/src/components/dismiss.md

---
title: Dismiss
description: The dismiss component in the Atlas Design System
template: standard
classType: Component
classPrefixes:
  - dismiss
---

# Dismiss

Dismiss is a component can be used within any other component that can be removed from the page. For example, modal, notification, banner, etc.

## Usage

Dismissal functionality requires two parts:

1. The dismiss component, which has the `data-dismiss` attribute
2. The parent component to dismiss, which has the `data-dismissable` attribute

Here is an example of a basic usage of dismiss component.

```html
<div class="padding-md border" id="example-dismiss-01" data-dismissable>
	<p class="margin-bottom-xs">Dismissable</p>
	<button type="button" data-bi-name="close" data-dismiss>Dismiss</button>
</div>
```

**Note:** the dismiss styles/positioning can be adjusted within the component it is applied to.

### Animating disappearance

To animate component's disappearance, add `data-dismiss-animation` attribute to the dismissable component with one of these values:

- `fade` will make component slowly fade out.

> - `slide-up` will make component fading while sliding up.

Author: Updated!

---
title: Dismiss
description: The dismiss component in the Atlas Design System
template: standard
classType: Component
classPrefixes:
  - dismiss
---

# Dismiss

> Dismiss is a subcomponent can be used within any other component that can be removed from the page. For example, modal, notification, banner, etc.

Reviewer: `component`

Author: Updated

## Usage

Dismissal functionality requires two parts:

1. The dismiss component, which has the `data-dismiss` attribute
2. The parent component to dismiss, which has the `data-dismissable` attribute

Below is an example usage with `notification` component.

```html

> <div class="notification" id="example-notification-01" data-dismissable>

Reviewer: Can we declutter this example but removing all but the most basic parts?

Author: Updated

	<div class="notification-content">
		<p>Dismissable notification.</p>
	</div>
	<button type="button" class="notification-dismiss" data-bi-name="close" data-dismiss>
		<span class="visually-hidden">Dismiss notification</span>
		<span class="icon" aria-hidden="true">
			<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 448 448" class="fill-current-color">
				<path
					d="M269.254 224l137.373 137.373-45.254 45.254L224 269.254 86.627 406.627l-45.255-45.254L178.746 224 41.373 86.627l45.255-45.255L224 178.746 361.373 41.373l45.254 45.255L269.254 224z"
				/>
			</svg>
		</span>
	</button>
</div>
```

### Animating disappearance

To animate component's disappearance, add `data-dismiss-animation` attribute to the dismissable component with one of these values:

- `fade` will make component slowly fade out.
- `slide-up` will make component fading while sliding up.

```html
<div

> 	class="notification"

Reviewer: Same thought, declutter examples?

Author: Updated

---
title: Dismiss
description: The dismiss component in the Atlas Design System
template: standard
classType: Component
classPrefixes:
  - dismiss
---

# Dismiss

Dismiss component can be used within any other component that can be removed from the page. For example, modal, notification, banner, etc.

```html
<button type="button" class="dismiss" data-dismiss data-bi-name="close">
	<span class="visually-hidden">Dismiss</span>
	<span class="icon" aria-hidden="true">
		<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 448 448" class="fill-current-color">
			<path
				d="M269.254 224l137.373 137.373-45.254 45.254L224 269.254 86.627 406.627l-45.255-45.254L178.746 224 41.373 86.627l45.255-45.255L224 178.746 361.373 41.373l45.254 45.255L269.254 224z"
			/>
		</svg>
	</span>
</button>
```

## Usage

> There are a few things to keep in mind when using dismiss component:
> 
> - dismiss component has to have the `data-dismiss` attribute
> - the component it is used within has to have `data-dismissable` attribute

Reviewer 2: Please feel to disregard this! But here's my take on this section.

```suggestion
Dismissal functionality requires two parts:

1. The dismiss button, which has the `data-dismiss` attribute
2. The parent element/container to dismiss, which has the `data-dismissable` attribute
```

Author: Updated combining both versions 😁

Below is an example usage with `notification` component.

```html

> <div class="notification" id="example-notification-01" data-dismissable data-testid="notification">

Reviewer: `data-test-id`?

Reviewer 2: Do we even want to have `data-test-id` attributes at all in our Atlas docs? (I vote we remove it)

Author: `data-testid` is used in the integration test.

Also, it is `data-testid` instead of `data-test-id` cause I read in the playwright documentation that's the default attribute name for targeting elements by id:

> By default, the data-testid attribute is used as a test id

https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-locator#locator-get-by-test-id

Reviewer: Hey that is cool! I am starting to think that @BenDMyers is correct though. Maybe our use cases are simple enough that we don't require a specific testId selector in Atlas. The unfortunate thing is that they clutter the code examples.

If we really want to keep the ids (my vote is to remove), let's keep them the same as our other repos, and use in our playwright config.

```
use: {
  testIdAttribute: 'data-test-id'
}
```

Author: Updated test to not use playwright's id at all, so examples look clean.

	<p>Dismissable notification.</p>
	<button
		type="button"
		data-dismiss
		data-bi-name="close"
		class="dismiss"
		data-testid="notification-dismiss"
	>
		<span class="visually-hidden">Dismiss notification</span>
		<span class="icon" aria-hidden="true">
			<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 448 448" class="fill-current-color">
				<path
					d="M269.254 224l137.373 137.373-45.254 45.254L224 269.254 86.627 406.627l-45.255-45.254L178.746 224 41.373 86.627l45.255-45.255L224 178.746 361.373 41.373l45.254 45.255L269.254 224z"
				/>
			</svg>
		</span>
	</button>
</div>
```

### Animating disappearance

There are two options available to animate component's disappearance. Adding `disappearing` attribute to the dismissable component will make it slowly fade out.

Assigning `slide-up` value to the `disappearing` attribute will make component fading while sliding up.

```html

> <div class="notification" id="example-notification-02" data-dismissable disappearing>

Reviewer: Could we unify the interface for animation here a bit? I think that maybe something like:

Couple very quick proposals:

```
on-dismiss-animation="fade" and
on-dismiss-animation="slide-up"
```

```
no property for default fade
on-dismiss="slide-up"
```

Author: You read my mind, just earlier today I thought I probably should've not use any default option. Updated and renamed attribute to `data-dismiss-animation`.
